[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: And
now the better parts.
So this is Antoine de Saint-Exupery.
He was an aviator back at the time
when aviation was really dangerous.
That's what we used to call pilots,
but he was an aviator.
It was really dangerous
because the planes crashed.
And he experienced several
crashes during his career and
survived almost all of them.
He was once trying to set the air
speed record from Paris to Saigon and
his plane crashed in Egypt,
near Cairo out in the Sahara Desert.
And he was not prepared for
survival in the desert.
He did very badly there,
suffered terrible dehydration.
Dehydrated so
much that he stopped sweating,
which is a really dangerous
thing to do in the desert.
Suffered terrible hallucinations.
Fortunately he was rescued by someone
who understood how to treat severe
dehydration and he survived and recovered.
Moved to America as the war is beginning,
becomes a writer and
turns out he's a brilliant writer.
He writes one of the most famous
children's books, The Little Prince.
Which is about an aviator who
is stranded in the desert
who is visited by a strange little boy
who lives on an asteroid and is suicidal.
Like all the best children's books,
it's not really a children's book, yeah.
And he wrote other books, too.
He wrote some very good books
about aviation books and
books aimed at grownups.
In one of them, he has one of
the best sentences ever written.
He says it seems that perfection is
attained not when there is nothing more to
add, but when there is nothing more
to subtract, which is just brilliant.
I've seen this quoted requoted over and
over again.
It's used all over the place and
in engineering design,
anything that's creative that
requires some kind of discipline.
It's just a brilliant quote and
he's talking about the design of airplanes
but it seems to talk about everything.
And I think it's especially telling for
programming,
because we have a special
relationship with perfection, right?
That our programs have to be perfect or
they're not gonna work correctly.
And he gives us some insight as
to how perfection is attained.
It's by removing things,
it's not by adding things.
And I think we can also apply
it to programming languages.
Because we have similar
things going on there
that most of our programming
languages tend to want to add things.
But I think most of them could
be improved by removing things.
And that's where the principle
of the good parts comes from.
That if a feature is sometimes useful and
sometimes dangerous and
if there is a better option.
Always use the better option.
And it surprises me that this
is a controversial statement.
Now there are lots of people out there who
say I don't wanna use a better option.
You can't make me use the better option.
It's like it being better
should be enough,but it's not.
I think that comes from
a fundamental misunderstanding about
what it is that we do.
We are not paid to use every
feature of the language.
At the end of a project there is never
a manager with a clipboard saying
did use a with statement,
did you leave out any semicolons?
Did you use commas in operator XII?.
No, no, nobody's doing that.
We are paid to write
programs that work well and
are free of error, but
that's what it's all about.
Now free of error,
where did that come from?
What turns out free of error has
always been the first requirement.
It's just we so rarely attain it,
it's easy to forget that it's
the most important thing.
>> Speaker 2: It's why it's
never gotten paid, I guess.
>> Douglas Crockford: So good
programming language should teach you.
I recommend everybody learn
as many languages as you can.
Because every language will give you
some new perspective on something,
maybe push you into a new paradigm.
And you can take the things
that you learned and
apply it to all the other
languages you know.
Everybody should learn as
many languages as they can.
And the language in my career that has
taught me the most has been JavaScript.
And it took a while for me to to learn
from the language, because well,
I made every mistake in
JavaScript that you could make.
Starting with the first one,
the worst one.
I didn't think I needed to learn the
language before I started writing in it,
that I had so much contempt for it.
The first time I saw JavaScript I thought
it was the stupidest thing I'd ever seen.
And it turns out,
I wasn't completely wrong, but
I wasn't completely right either.
Eventually, I did and
I was cursing all the time I was writing a
JavaScript that made me very, very angry.
So eventually,
I decided to learn the language.
So I got the standard,
which you get free off of the site and
read it, and was surprised to
discover that it had lambdas in it.
If it had functions with first class as
first class values with lexical closure,
which I had no idea that it was in there.
Brendan put it in there intentionally.
That's not something that gets
into the language by accident, but
he didn't tell anybody.
And so I discovered it in reading
the standard and was wow,
this changes everything.
And at that point my relationship
with the language changed.
And at that point, he was able to
finally start teaching me things and
he has taught me a lot.
So one of the things I did with
JavaScript was I wrote JSLint.
Because I needed a tool to help me
avoid all of the traps
that are in that language.
That are there to defeat me.
And JSLint turns out is much
smarter about JavaScript than I am.
My initial intuitions about what were
good features of languages what were bad
were extremely unreliable.
Whereas JSLint was always very good at
always directing me to
the correct point of view.
What is it that we can do mechanically
in order to find mistakes?
Because that's what I need to do in order
to try to make my programs more perfect.
And JSLint has taught me an enormous
amount about programming.